PARKLAND, Fla.—The teenager charged with killing 17 people at a Florida high school had alarmed authorities, neighbors and classmates, who recounted such behavior as obsessing over weapons, shooting small animals with a pellet gun and harassing neighbors’ pets.

Nikolas Cruz admitted on Thursday to being the gunman who entered the campus armed with an AR-15-style rifle and shot students whom he saw in the hallways and on the school grounds, according to a complaint affidavit released late Thursday.

MORE
Gunman Kills 17 at Florida High School
Shooting Victims: a ‘Jokester’ Coach; an Avid Soccer Player; Youth Volunteers
Law-Enforcement Officials Say YouTube Tip on Florida Shooter Wasn’t a Strong Lead
Florida Suspect Was ‘Really Fascinated by Guns’
AR-15 Style Rifles: Popular and Easily Customized
A Call From a Child During the Shooting: A Parent’s Story
Trump Plans Summit on School Safety
Recent School Shootings in U.S.
What We Know About School Shootings

Trump Pledges to Make Schools More Secure in Wake of Shooting
In a speech Thursday, President Donald Trump praised teachers and first responders after a gunman killed 17 in a Florida school, and pledged to hold a summit to address school safety. Photo: Getty Images
The Federal Bureau of Investigation also said it fielded a tip last September that a YouTube commenter with the same name as Mr. Cruz made an alarming claim: “Im going to be a professional school shooter.” The FBI investigated, but it didn’t link the comment to Mr. Cruz.

The 19-year-old former student, who had been expelled from the school, also may have stalked one of the girls he killed, said a senior law-enforcement official.

“He had a very strange look in his eyes all the time. He has a cold, cold stare,” said Malcolm Roxburgh, a former neighbor.

On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Cruz took an Uber car to his former high school just before classes were dismissed, Broward County Sheriff Scott Israel said. He entered a school building with a legally purchased Smith & Wesson M&P 15 in a soft black bag. He readied his rifle and opened fire into five classrooms, the sheriff said. He killed 17 in the school and nearby, while wounding more than a dozen.

The teen left behind a trail of worrying signs that in hindsight seem to have gone unheeded. Neighbors called the police, classmates said he was obsessed with guns, and campus security considered him troubled. “Something was off with him,” said Brody Speno, 19, who went to elementary and middle school with Mr. Cruz.


Florida School Mass Shooting: A Timeline of Events
Mapped timeline showing how the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School unfolded. Mapping: Dylan Moriarty / Sketching: Merrill Sherman / Video: Heather Seidel
On Thursday, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said this looked like yet another attack preceded by signals.

“Perhaps we haven’t been effective enough in intervening immediately to deal with that,” Mr. Sessions said, speaking to a sheriffs association in Washington, D.C., on Thursday. Authorities can’t arrest everyone they believe is dangerous, but “we can and we must do better,” he said.

Other officials, such as President Donald Trump and Florida Gov. Rick Scott announced plans to redouble efforts to try to stop school violence. They didn’t speak about gun control, and focused more on mental health.

“It is not enough to simply take actions that make us feel like we are making a difference—we must actually make that difference,” Mr. Trump said, addressing the nation from the White House.

Broward County Public Schools Superintendent Robert Runcie did put the focus on weapons. “Now is the time for this country to have a real conversation on sensible gun-control laws,” he said. “Our students are asking for that conversation.”

Mr. Cruz made his first appearance in court Thursday afternoon for a bond hearing, shuffling in shackles and wearing an orange outfit. He looked subdued and spoke only briefly, answering “Yes, ma’am,” when asked to confirm his identity.