The Washington Post
Democracy Dies in Darkness

 
Sections 
Subscribe
Sign In
Opinions
Don’t celebrate the budget agreement. It imperils America.
 
Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), left, and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) at the Capitol on Feb. 7. (J. Scott Applewhite/AP)

By Fred Hiatt Editorial Page Editor February 11 at 7:30 PM Email the author
That we celebrate the bipartisan budget agreement approved last week shows how far we have slipped as a democracy since President Barack Obama and House Speaker John A. Boehner tried to tackle our fiscal problem.

It’s a decline that imperils our ability to keep America great.

It is true that government did not shut down last week (well, not for long) and that the United States will keep paying its debts (at least for now). The alternatives, entirely imaginable in today’s Washington, would have been worse.

subscribe
The story must be told.
Your subscription supports journalism that matters.
Try 1 month for $1
But think back to the Obama-Boehner negotiations in 2012 and 2013. Then, you might recall, the dispute was over how to balance two difficult things: tax hikes and entitlement cuts. Neither was popular, but Democrats understood we needed one, Republicans knew we needed the other. Together, politicians were — almost — ready to put the nation on sounder financial footing.

Now we cheer because Democrats and Republicans agree to let each other increase domestic and military spending, respectively.

We have gone from arguing over portions of spinach and broccoli, in other words, to congratulating ourselves for letting each other eat as much of two different kinds of ice cream as we want.

Look, the Democrats crow, we got $131 billion of mint chocolate chip! We win!

No, say the Republicans, we got $165 billion of butter pecan! We win!

As to difficult things — those are for suckers. If the other party won’t go there, why should we?

Politically, it seems to make sense. The only victims are: The next generations, who will have to pay the debt. Any remaining faith in politicians, whose hypocrisy once again is laid bare. And, maybe most destructive, the government’s wherewithal to help prepare the nation for the challenges of the coming century.

First responsibility of course lies with the cynic in chief. Has anyone ever frothed and foamed more, while caring less, about the deficit?

“Our deficit spending is China’s gain,” Donald Trump tweeted in 2011. “@BarackObama is bankrupting our country.”

The next year: “Obama just had another trillion dollar budget deficit for the fourth year in a row. At least he is consistent.”

The next: “Obama is the most profligate deficit & debt spender in our nation’s history.”

And the next, and the next, and the next. It was, of course, all a game. It took Trump 13 months to surpass Obama in breathtaking irresponsibility, with his massive tax cut last year, unpaid for, and massive spending bill last week, mostly unpaid for.

But even a president of gargantuan duplicity can’t accomplish this alone. It required the dishonesty of the entire Republican leadership, pretending that tax cuts pay for themselves and deciding to pass a “tax reform” with no input from the Democratic Party.

That almost guaranteed that Democrats would forswear fiscal responsibility, not that most of them needed much convincing. Why restrain spending, they would say — just to pay for tax cuts for the rich?

The last pretenders were the conservative Republicans who supported the tax cut, opposed the spending bill and claimed the mantle of fiscal rectitude — but for the most part are no readier than anyone else in Washington to support a government of the size that their tax bill will pay for. Yes, they’re happy to cut food stamps and force Medicaid recipients to work; but when it comes to scaling back the big middle-class entitlements that increasingly gobble up the budget, do not count on their votes.

“This is no way to run a country,” said Sen. Michael F. Bennet (D-Colo.), one of the few with the courage to oppose the bill for the right reasons last week. “Instead of scratching each other’s backs in Washington, we should be working to find a balanced way to fund our priorities while ensuring that we do not strangle the next generation of Americans in debt they did not incur.”

The key verb in that statement is not “strangle” but “fund” — because the saddest consequence of this failure of leadership is the lost opportunity to shape American greatness for the next generation.

Honest leaders would be saying that we need, yes, to reform entitlement programs, but also to levy sufficient taxes to care for our old and poor and simultaneously take advantage of the opportunities that science and technology are presenting: educate young people, retrain workers, invest in research, build the infrastructure that a 21st-century economy needs.

That would be one kind of leadership, the kind that did make America great and keep it that way for decades after World War II.

Or you can whoop and holler because you got two scoops and the other kid got only one.

Read more from Fred Hiatt’s archive, follow him on Twitter or subscribe to his updates on Facebook.

Read more on this topic:

Jennifer Rubin: McConnell and Schumer jam the House: Six things that just happened

The Post’s View: McConnell and Schumer celebrate a budget deal that denies reality

Joe Scarborough: Republicans are repeating a reckless cycle

Max Boot: Republicans are making a mockery of their reputations

The Post’s View: These Republicans used to pretend to care about debt. Not anymore.

 227 Comments
 Share on FacebookShare
  Share on TwitterTweet
Share via Email
 
Fred Hiatt is the editorial page editor of The Post. He writes editorials for the newspaper and a biweekly column that appears on Mondays. He also contributes to the PostPartisan blog.  Follow @hiattf
The Post Recommends

Opinion
The one-word reason Congress’s debt deal should worry us
We don’t know where the line is on deficit spending. Let’s not find out.
1 day ago

Opinion
The agony of the moderate left
There are similar dilemmas in Germany and United States.
1 day ago

Opinion
Here’s what Year Two of Trump’s scam will look like
More inequality. More deportations. More bread-and-circuses racial provocation.
9 hours ago
 
PAID PROMOTED STORIES
 March 10, 2018 Could Be "The End Of Bitcoin"
March 10, 2018 Could Be "The End Of Bitcoin"
The Crux
 The One Stock That Could Make Cryptocurrency Mainstream
The One Stock That Could Make Cryptocurrency Mainstream
coinstocks
 Glasses-Lovers Are Going Crazy Over This Website
Glasses-Lovers Are Going Crazy Over This Website
GlassesUSA
Recommended by
Most Read Opinions
1 
Opinion
Pence was the worst person the White House could have sent to the Olympics
2 
Opinion
Trump’s obstruction of justice is far more extensive than Nixon’s
3 
Opinion
President Trump has finally released his comic book
4 
Opinion
Why Trump’s infrastructure plan doesn’t pass the straight-face test
5 
Opinion
Sarah Huckabee Sanders: The media endangers national security
The story must be told.
Subscribe to The Washington Post
Try 1 month for $1
Our Online Games
Play right from this page


Klondike Solitaire
Card game
 
Mahjongg Candy
Matching game
 
Word Wipe
Word game
 
Mahjongg Dimensions
Arcade game
Opinions newsletter

Thought-provoking opinions and commentary, in your inbox daily.


E-mail address
 
washingtonpost.com
© 1996-2018 The Washington Post
 
Help and Contact Us
Policies and Standards
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Print Products Terms of Sale
Digital Products Terms of Sale
Submissions and Discussion Policy
RSS Terms of Service
Ad Choices

