SECTIONSHOMESEARCHSKIP TO CONTENTSKIP TO NAVIGATIONVIEW MOBILE VERSIONOpinion|Democrats Can Win on Immigration
Share
Tweet
Email
More
Save
SUBSCRIBE NOWLOG IN
425
 SETTINGS

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Is Trump Working On a Different Kind of ‘Massacre’?

OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS
Republicans Need a Nudge to Lower Health Care Costs

OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS
Is Devin Nunes Obstructing Justice?

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
America’s Real Digital Divide

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Democrats Can Win on Immigration

EDITORIAL
The Problem With Parole

CHARLES M. BLOW
G.O.P. Visions of Tectonic Realignment

DAVID LEONHARDT
Trumpism for Thee, but Not for Me

CONTRIBUTING OP-ED WRITER
Channeling Putin in Cairo

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
The Middle East’s Coming War

LETTERS
Trump, Rob Porter and #MeToo

LETTER
Dos and Don’ts for Democrats: Let’s Hear Your Ideas

LETTER
Trump’s ‘Decent Appointment’ to the F.D.A.

LETTERS
At the Olympics, Mike Pence’s Missed Opportunity

PATRICK CHAPPATTE
SpaceX and Tesla Go Into Orbit

DAVID LEONHARDT
The Berea College Carve-Out

OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Trump’s Cynical Use of Human Rights

EDITORIAL
The Dangerous Illusion of Missile Defense

LETTERS
Sharing the Plane Cabin With Animals

LETTER
Redistricting Plans
Loading...
Opinion | OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR
Democrats Can Win on Immigration
By MATT A. BARRETOFEB. 11, 2018

Continue reading the main storyShare This Page
Share
Tweet
Email
More
Save

425
Photo

Credit John Moore/Getty Images
LOS ANGELES — To no one’s surprise, President Trump, who has been doubling down on his anti-immigrant rhetoric, used his State of the Union address to draw parallels between the Central American gang MS-13 and law-abiding immigrants in the United States.

The next week, he reiterated that “MS-13 killers” are “pouring into our country.” This kind of language, long a Trump trademark, was used as a political strategy just a few months ago in Virginia during the failed bid of the Republican candidate for governor, Ed Gillespie. It was also on display in the campaign of Kim Guadagno, a Republican who lost the race to replace Chris Christie as governor of New Jersey.

In their quest to retake the House or the Senate (or both), Democrats should not shy away from incorporating and welcoming immigrants into their own rhetoric. When Republicans embark on meanspirited immigrant bashing, Democrats should take notes from Harry Reid’s 2010 re-election victory in Nevada and Ralph Northam’s 2017 gubernatorial win in Virginia. Both Mr. Reid and Mr. Northam rebuffed racially charged anti-immigrant campaigns, standing up for Dreamers, and in the process winning over Latino voters alongside a coalition of progressive and moderate college-educated whites.

In 2010, Mr. Reid made a strong stand for the Dream Act while competing against a Republican, Sharron Angle, who ran a nativist campaign equating immigrants with gang members. Mr. Reid defied the polls and won re-election on the strength of very high Latino turnout — and no signs of a white working-class backlash.

According to the exit polls, Mr. Reid ran 11 percentage points ahead of Ms. Angle among white voters who earn less than $50,000 and, according to data compiled by Latino Decisions, a polling organization that I co-founded, won an estimated 90 percent of the Latino vote.

Continue reading the main story
RECENT COMMENTS
Ma 37 minutes ago
Title on this article must be a typo; should read "Democrats Will Lose on Immigration'

WorkingGuy 42 minutes ago
Prof. Barreto has finally made it possible for Democrats to come clean.Of the $90B in recent aid for disasters, only 2B goes to Puerto Rico...

Son of the American Revolution 42 minutes ago
Democratic proponents keep bringing up deep Blue New Jersey, the Leviathan homeland of Virginia, and wins against off the wall candidates...

SEE ALL COMMENTS  WRITE A COMMENT
In 2016, Nevada proved to be one of the bright spots for Democrats. Mr. Reid’s strategy was embraced by his successor, Catherine Cortez Masto, who became the first Latina elected to the Senate.

Newsletter Sign UpContinue reading the main story
Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter
Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.


Enter your email address
 Sign Up

You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.

SEE SAMPLE PRIVACY POLICY OPT OUT OR CONTACT US ANYTIME
In the wake of Mr. Trump’s victory, there has been a renewed focus on the so-called white working-class vote, a demographic segment that has been getting smaller each year and has been trending away from Democrats for a long time. While it is true that compared with Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton lost ground with that segment of the electorate, the clues to a new Democratic majority may be found in the coalition that elected Mr. Northam governor of Virginia, or perhaps more accurately, voted against Mr. Gillespie and his immigrant bashing.

In Virginia, polling data has made it clear that Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 rhetoric backfired among minority voters as well as, crucially, among many whites. Mr. Northam won a majority of white college-educated voters, who made up a larger share of the electorate in 2017 than they did in 2016. Mr. Gillespie matched Mr. Trump with noncollege whites, but their turnout was down. And minority voters in 2017 matched their 2016 electorate share — for the first time ever there was no drop-off from the presidential to the gubernatorial election. The Democrats also expanded their margin of victory in Virginia from five percentage points in 2016 to nine points in 2017.

Before the vote in Virginia, pundits on both the right and left were speculating that Mr. Gillespie’s anti-immigrant strategy was working. But in the end, election results and polling data in Virginia proved all that thinking was wrong. While each state has its own demographics and distinct politics, Virginia has voters who span demographic and economic spectrums. Majorities of voters of all races and ethnicities rejected anti-immigrant stereotypes as ugly and wrong.

According to an election eve survey of voters by Latino Decisions, Latino voters said that Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 ads made them less enthusiastic about him, by a 45-point margin. But it wasn’t just Latino voters. By a 23-point margin (52 to 29), whites in Virginia also said the MS-13 ads turned them away from Mr. Gillespie, as did African-American and Asian-American voters by larger margins.

Data speaks louder than punditry, and our regression analysis of survey data paints a clear picture. Exposure to Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 ads actually helped drive white college-educated voters away from the Republicans. When we analyzed findings for white independents and Republicans, voters who were aware of the MS-13 ads were significantly more likely to vote for Mr. Gillespie’s Democratic opponent. What should be alarming for Republicans is that this effect wasn’t limited to the governor’s race. The Gillespie campaign had coattail effects, but of the wrong stripe. Across all racial groups, those who were aware of Mr. Gillespie’s MS-13 ads were significantly more likely to vote for Democratic candidates for Virginia’s House of Delegates.


425
COMMENTS
This means that not only is it morally just for Democrats to position themselves as the party that stands against hatred and bigotry and in favor of inclusiveness and opportunity, but it is also a strategically sound position for winning votes. Simultaneously, it sends a clear, welcoming message to Latino, African-American and Asian-American voters, while also winning over enough of the white voters who also oppose immigrant bashing.

This phenomenon is particularly true of voters who will decide crucial House and Senate races in 2018: people of color and white college-educated voters — also known as the Democratic base. Mr. Trump and his fellow Republicans are clearly gearing up for a similar anti-immigrant effort in 2018. But now the mask has been pulled off. Voters get it. Democrats have an opportunity to speak out strongly against bigotry. And in doing so, they have a path to victory in 2018 and beyond.

Matt A. Barreto is a political scientist at U.C.L.A. and a co-founder of the polling firm Latino Decisions.

Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 

A version of this op-ed appears in print on February 12, 2018, on Page A23 of the New York edition with the headline: Democrats Can Win on Immigration. Today's Paper|Subscribe

Continue reading the main story
TRENDING

Tonya Harding Would Like Her Apology Now

With Gaza in Financial Crisis, Fears That ‘an Explosion’s Coming’

The 52 Places Traveler: Starting an Intimidating World Tour in the Big Easy

A Night Out With North Korea’s Cheerleaders: Matching Snowsuits, Military Discipline and Chaperoned Bathroom Trips

Adding to Olympic Nerves: A Wardrobe Malfunction on Ice

Just Working Harder Won’t Get You Ahead. Working Smarter Will.

Here Are the Places That Struggle to Meet the Rules on Safe Drinking Water

The Obamas, Olympic Games, Republican Party: Your Evening Briefing

Sony Apologizes for ‘Peter Rabbit’ Movie’s Allergy Scene

Opinion: For a Better Marriage, Act Like a Single Person
View More Trending Stories »

What's Next
Loading...
Go to Home Page »
SITE INDEX THE NEW YORK TIMES
Site Index Navigation
NEWS
World
U.S.
Politics
N.Y.
Business
Tech
Science
Health
Sports
Education
Obituaries
Today's Paper
Corrections
OPINION
Today's Opinion
Op-Ed Columnists
Editorials
Op-Ed Contributors
Letters
Sunday Review
Video: Opinion
ARTS
Today's Arts
Art & Design
Books
Dance
Movies
Music
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Television
Theater
Video: Arts
LIVING
Automobiles
Crossword
Food
Education
Fashion & Style
Health
Jobs
Magazine
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Real Estate
T Magazine
Travel
Weddings & Celebrations
LISTINGS & MORE
Reader Center
Classifieds
Tools & Services
N.Y.C. Events Guide
Multimedia
Photography
Video
NYT Store
Times Journeys
Subscribe
Manage My Account
NYTCo
SUBSCRIBE
 Home Delivery
 Digital Subscriptions
 Crossword
Email Newsletters
Alerts
Gift Subscriptions
Group Subscriptions
Education Rate
Mobile Applications
Replica Edition
Site Information Navigation
© 2018 The New York Times Company HomeSearchAccessibility concerns? Email us at accessibility@nytimes.com. We would love to hear from you.Contact UsWork With UsAdvertiseYour Ad ChoicesPrivacyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite Information Navigation
Site MapHelpSite FeedbackSubscriptions Go to the previous story Go to the next story
