

MEDIA 02/12/2018 02:30 am ET
GOP Lawmaker Devin Nunes Reportedly Made His Own Fake News Website
“News, sports and analysis” website is paid for by the Nunes campaign.

By Ed Mazza
X

A Republican lawmaker from California has been reportedly operating his own news website. 

Politico reported that “GOP memo author” Rep. Devin Nunes and his campaign were behind The California Republican, a website that calls itself a “media/news company” in its Facebook description and claims to have “the best of U.S., California and Central Valley news, sports and analysis.” According to Politico, however, the website was registered by Alex Tavlian of Sultana Media, which was paid $7,773 by the Nunes campaign for “advertising; digital advertising management.”

Tavlian told Politico he did not run the website and was not familiar with it. 

The California Republican, who is chairman of the House Intelligence Committee and was a member of President Donald Trump’s transition team, has been offline since the Politico report, but a version cached by Google contained the following disclaimer: 

Paid for by the Devin Nunes Campaign Committee · FEC ID #C00370056

The Facebook page did not appear to contain a similar disclaimer. 

Nunes has not yet responded to the accusations. 

One headline on the website ― “Understanding the process behind #ReleaseTheMemo” ― referred to the controversial and partisan memo drafted by staffers in Nunes’ office, which Trump incorrectly claimed vindicated him in the Russia investigation. The story, written before the memo was made public, summarized and linked to a story in the conservative National Review that called on lawmakers to release the memo.  

Democrat Andrew Janz, who hopes to unseat Nunes in the coming midterm elections, slammed his rival on Twitter for creating the fake news site: 

 
Andrew Janz
✔
@JanzforCongress
Fake news, fake Clovis district office, and fake radio Town Halls on KMJ. It's time for a change in #CA22 https://twitter.com/davidsiders/status/962708728779653121 …

9:32 AM - Feb 11, 2018
3,038
1,467 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Andrew Janz
✔
@JanzforCongress
Nunes flaunting his latest production http://thehill.com/homenews/house/373311-nunes-creates-own-media-outlet-to-deliver-news-sports-and-analysis …

10:07 PM - Feb 11, 2018
791
456 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
HuffPost
BEFORE YOU GO
PHOTO GALLERY
Trump Tower Meeting With Russian Lawyer

Ed Mazza
Overnight Editor, HuffPost
Suggest a correction
MORE:
U.S. News  Republican Party  Fake News  Devin Nunes
  by Taboola Sponsored Links You May Like
This Toxic Vegetable Is The No. 1 Danger In Your Diet
Gundry MD
This Amazon Upgrade is Even Better Than Prime
Honey
(Photos) This Photo Has Not Been Edited, Look Closer
HistoryInOrbit.com
We Can Guess Your Education Level with Only 10 Questions
Definition
Plastic Surgeon Reveals: “You Can Fill In Wrinkles At Home” (Here’s How)
Beverly Hills MD
This Is The Most Incredible Thing You Will See All Day
Natural Healthy Living
GOP Lawmaker Devin Nunes Reportedly Made His Own Fake News Website
5.7k
47
MOST SHARED
Do You Like Paying Tolls? You’re Gonna Love Trump’s Infrastructure Plan
Gigi Hadid Shuts Down Body Shamers, Speaks Out On Hashimoto’s Disease
Amy Schumer Makes It Official With Her New Chef Boyfriend
Twitter Bans GOP Candidate For Racist Meghan Markle Tweet
Rob Porter’s Ex-Wife ‘Floored’ By Trump Insinuating She’s A Liar
WHAT’S HOT
Russian Rival Offered To Lend Luge To Struggling U.S. Silver Medalist
Adam Rippon Just Wanted To Make Reese Witherspoon Proud… And He Did
Kensington Palace Shares All The Royal Wedding Date Details You Need To Know
Everything You Need To Know About Michelle Obama’s Portrait Dress
Mexico’s Alpine Ski Team Gear Is A Gorgeous Tribute To The Day Of The Dead
Katie Couric Is Skating On Thin Ice With Dutch Olympics Fans
A Disney Vacation Just Got Way More Expensive
Tom Brady And Gisele Bündchen Are Doing Just Fine
CONVERSATIONS

HuffPost
ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
About Our Ads
Contact Us
RSS
FAQ
Careers
Archive
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Comment Policy
HuffPost Press Room

©2018 Oath Inc. All rights reserved.
 HuffPost News

