NEWS
SHOWS
VIDEO
CBSN
MORE
2018 WESTMINSTER DOG SHOW
Trending Videos CBSN LIVE »
  
CBS Evening News
Allegations overshadow Trump's infrastructure plan
  
60 Minutes Overtime
Gillibrand on Dem's messaging
  
CBS Evening News
Father facing deportation granted stay
  
CBS Evening News
Opioid maker backs off aggressive marketing
  
CBS Evening News
Israel shoots down Iranian drone
  
CBS Evening News
Fighting the flu with UV light
  
CBS Evening News
Unique Obama portraits unveiled
  
CBS This Morning
W.H. defends John Kelly amid aide scandal
  
CBS This Morning
Weinstein Company sued by New York AG
  
CBS This Morning
Deadly Grand Canyon helicopter crash
CBS/AP February 10, 2018, 2:22 AM
Kim Jong Un invited South Korean president to North Korea, Seoul says
Share  Tweet  Reddit  Flipboard  Email
Last Updated Feb 10, 2018 2:31 AM EST

SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korea said Saturday North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has invited South Korean President Moon Jae-in for a summit meeting in the North. Moon's spokesman Kim Eui-kyeom said Kim's sister verbally delivered his offer in a lunch meeting with Moon at Seoul's presidential palace. 

The spokesman said Moon replied that the North and South should continue to work to build conditions so that a summit can take place. 

Mike Pence doesn't stand for North Korea athletes during opening ceremonies 
The spokesman said Moon also called for a quick resumption of dialogue between the United States and North Korea. 

 Spectacle and fireworks at Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony 
Spectacle and fireworks at Winter Olympics Opening Ceremony
Moon's office said Kim's sister, Kim Yo Jong, came to the South as his special envoy. 

CBS News correspondent Ben Tracy reported Friday it was a "historic moment" when Kim Yo Jong and Moon shook hands.

Tracy said her influence in the regime is so significant, South Korean media call her the North's Ivanka Trump. Her presence is the latest move in an extraordinary show of Olympic diplomacy with Seoul that could prove to be a major challenge to the Trump administration's hard-line Korea policies.  

And as Tracy reported earlier this week, the first member of North Korea's ruling family to cross the border, Kim Yo Jong was never guaranteed a warm welcome from all South Koreans.   

During the Olympics' Opening Ceremony, Vice President Mike Pence sat just feet away from Kim Yo Jong, and the country's 90-year-old nominal head of state, Kim Yong Nam. The North Korean delegation sat a row behind Pence. A White House official said they did not interact. 

The official said Pence only stood for U.S. athletes during the cereomony. 

© 2018 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Share  Tweet  Reddit  Flipboard  Email
  Sponsored Links 
It’s Like eBay, But Everything Sells in 90 Seconds.
Tophatter
Meghan McCain says Trump won't attack her father again, criticizes Ivanka Trump


Popular on CBS News
01
2 police officers shot and killed in Ohio
280012 views
02
How to watch the 2018 Olympics on TV and online
122695 views
03
Trump will not declassify Democrats' current memo
68451 views
04
Comedian's 2-year-old son dies from brain cancer
55984 views
05
Pence, Moon speak after Moon invited to visit North Korea​
35006 views
From "60 Minutes"
 
Showdown over Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act
 
The Russian doping mastermind on the run
 
Kirsten Gillibrand: The #MeToo senator
 
"60 Minutes" Presents: On the "60 Minutes" Menu
 
50 years of "60 Minutes"
 
Leaning Tower of San Francisco
 
Ex-British spy on leading a "double life" as a famous author
 
Kabul under siege while America's longest war rages on
 
The American scientist who's seen North Korea's nuclear secrets
 
Is Portland still Portlandia?
 
RT's editor-in-chief on election meddling, being labeled Russian propaganda
 
Predicting crime in Chicago
 
Combat veterans coming home with CTE
 
play VIDEO
Father facing deportation granted stay
PreviousNext
Most Shared on CBS News
 
An actual wall dividing parties coming to House Intel Committee?
 
2 police officers shot and killed in Ohio
 
Omarosa: I wouldn't vote for Trump again "in a million years, never"
 
Trump praises Rob Porter, accused of abusing his ex-wives
 
SpaceX Falcon Heavy launches in spectacular show
 
37 PHOTOS
The best of the 2018 Winter Olympics
PreviousNext
New Fire TV App
 New Fire TV App
CBSNews.com
Site Map
Help
Contact Us
CBS Bios
Careers
CBSi Careers
Internships
Development Programs
CBS Interactive
Privacy Policy
Ad Choice
Terms of Use
Mobile User Agreement
About CBS
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Store
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Email Newsletters
YouTube
CBS News Radio
CBS Local
CBS News

Search...
Search
Copyright © 2018 CBS Interactive Inc.
All rights reserved.


