

POLITICS 02/09/2018 08:14 pm ET Updated 6 hours ago
Another White House Staffer Resigns Over Domestic Abuse Allegations
Speechwriter David Sorensen is accused of physically and emotionally abusing his former wife.

By Mollie Reilly
 
ADVERTISEMENT

White House speechwriter David Sorensen resigned Friday after being accused of physical and emotional abuse by his ex-wife. 

“Before we were contacted by the media, we learned last night that there were allegations. We immediately confronted the staffer, he denied the allegations and he resigned today,” said White House spokesman Raj Shah in a statement Friday.

Sorensen is the second White House official to resign this week over domestic abuse allegations. On Thursday, White House staff secretary Rob Porter stepped down after reports emerged that he was accused of abuse by his two ex-wives.

Sorensen’s former wife, Jessica Corbett, told The Washington Post about several violent episodes she said occurred during their marriage. She accused him of running over her foot with a car and burning her hand with a cigarette, as well as sending her abusive emails and text messages. The couple divorced in September.

Sorensen has denied the allegations, saying he stepped down to relieve the White House of a potential “distraction.” 

“In fact, I was the victim of repeated physical violence during our marriage, not her,” he said in a statement to the Post. He detailed some of these incidents to the newspaper and provided photographs of bruises and scrapes he said he received from her during their arguments. 

Sorensen, who worked on the Council on Environmental Quality, joined the Trump administration last year after working as a top adviser to Maine Gov. Paul LePage (R). At the time of his White House appointment, the Portland Press Herald wrote that “he has a reputation as an aggressive and sometimes combative political operative.”

According to Politico, officials had not yet completed a background check on Sorensen. Corbett told the Post she told the FBI about his behavior last year.

Porter’s background check had also never been completed.  

Earlier Friday, President Donald Trump made his first public comments on Porter’s departure, pointing to his ex-staffer’s denials and calling the situation “very sad.” 

“As you probably know, he says he’s innocent, and I think you have to remember that,” Trump told reporters in the Oval Office. “He said very strongly yesterday that he’s innocent, so you’ll have to talk to him about that.”

According to CNN, White House chief of staff John Kelly and others in the administration knew about the allegations against Porter for months before they became public.

This article has been updated with details on the allegations against Sorensen and Trump’s comments Friday about Porter. 

Do you have information you want to share with HuffPost? Here’s how.


Mollie Reilly
Assignment Editor, HuffPost
Suggest a correction
MORE:
White House  Domestic Abuse  Executive Office Of The President Of The United States
  by Taboola Sponsored Links You May Like
This Amazon Upgrade is Even Better Than Prime
Honey
U.S. Cardiologist Warns: Stop Taking Probiotics Immediately
Gundry MD
This Is The Most Incredible Thing You Will See All Day
Natural Healthy Living
We Can Guess Your Education Level with Only 10 Questions
Definition
She Is The Inspiration Behind One Of The Most Beautiful Songs Ever Written
IcePop
10 Gorgeous Actresses Who Play Their Looks down on TV
CafeMom
Another White House Staffer Resigns Over Domestic Abuse Allegations
9.3k
150
MOST SHARED
Do You Like Paying Tolls? You’re Gonna Love Trump’s Infrastructure Plan
Gigi Hadid Shuts Down Body Shamers, Speaks Out On Hashimoto’s Disease
Amy Schumer Makes It Official With Her New Chef Boyfriend
Twitter Bans GOP Candidate For Racist Meghan Markle Tweet
Rob Porter’s Ex-Wife ‘Floored’ By Trump Insinuating She’s A Liar
WHAT’S HOT
Russian Rival Offered To Lend Luge To Struggling U.S. Silver Medalist
Adam Rippon Just Wanted To Make Reese Witherspoon Proud… And He Did
Kensington Palace Shares All The Royal Wedding Date Details You Need To Know
Everything You Need To Know About Michelle Obama’s Portrait Dress
Mexico’s Alpine Ski Team Gear Is A Gorgeous Tribute To The Day Of The Dead
Katie Couric Is Skating On Thin Ice With Dutch Olympics Fans
Tom Brady And Gisele Bündchen Are Doing Just Fine
A Disney Vacation Just Got Way More Expensive
CONVERSATIONS

HuffPost
ABOUT US
ADVERTISE
About Our Ads
Contact Us
RSS
FAQ
Careers
Archive
User Agreement
Privacy Policy
Comment Policy
HuffPost Press Room

©2018 Oath Inc. All rights reserved.
 HuffPost News

